>> Steve: So we talked a little
bit about style calculations.
The next part of that chain
was layouts and reflows.
Right, like a layout is effectively
ok a reflows is effectively a we
layout of the page.
You changed something with
JavaScript didn't you, right?
Or by resizing the window because I don't
know if whenever you make a front end
webpage, the first thing a nontechnical
person does is see if it's responsive by
grabbing the side and making the window
small and large a bunch of times.
Also technical people do that.
I do that.
I understand where all the responsive
design tools are in Chrome, I don't care.
[LAUGH] So,
layout is the first time, a reflow
is a word frequently used for, things have
changed, I need to update the layout.
A layout can be really, really expensive
and they're usually one of the main causes
of JavaScript,
that slow down rendering, right?
Because, yeah, if you do it too much,
that's problematic.
Again think about all of the elements
on the page, every list item,
every text node, everything, every image.
It's a lot of work.
I don't even know how it gets it
done in the time that it does.
It's kind of impressive, like,
I think it's mostly that we've had like
29 years or now I think the web is,
29 years of experience doing this,
has made it decently fast.
But like it's incredible.
You can actually, there are some
YouTube videos that show Wikipedia, or
a few other pages effectively, the process
of Firefox goes through laying it out.
It's like okay,
there's an H1 it's inside of a div.
And it keeps having to move it around and
change the size and adjust stuff and
it's fascinating.
So kind of mentioned this before.
Whenever the geometry of an element
changes the browser has to reflow
the page, right?
Like, how that actually happens like in
the browsers is very different, right.
Like it doesn't really matter.
The major points we're going to touch on
is not doing it when you don't need to,
it's the largest one, right?
But the actual process is very
different for every different engine.
So, things that you need
to know about a reflow.
A reflow is what we call
a blocking operation.
Everything else stops when
we're relaying out the page.
None of your JavaScript is running,
nothing, right?
We are reflowing the page.
That is the thing that
we are doing right now.
Stop everything until that is done.
And obviously if I haven't made
this clear enough, it's hard.
And it takes a lot of resources and
it's not fast or easy.
And if you do it a lot,
guess who's gonna notice, right.
A lot of the stuff we're trying to do is,
for
a lot of this web performance stuff,
if we're doing our jobs well,
the user should never notice
that we're doing anything.
Users never go, they implicitly in
their brains go like, I like this side.
They don't know that
performance is the reason why.
But, if performance on your side is
terrible, they know, [LAUGH] right?
If users notice the performance, it's
usually that you're messing it up, right?
So you end up doing this in a loop.
It's gonna be noticeable,
it's gonna be bad.
And we basically don't
want people to notice us.
>> Steve: Coo,l the only thing to keep in
mind is that reflow of an element.
I'm very careful with these words, right.
Reflow of an element causes the reflow
of its parents and children.
Think about what you know about a tree.
[LAUGH] If you reflow
all of the children and
then you reflow the parents and
they reflow the children.
Pure most the time, there are some edge
cases where you can get away with only
having to reflow part of it and
we'll talk a little about some of those.
But generally speaking that is code for
saying
you touch one thing you touch everything,
right, this is technically the truth.
But really more often I would say
95% of the time you reflow a thing,
you're reflowing everything.
Good luck.
So, okay,
we know that reflows are expensive.
Avoiding them is not necessarily fair
cuz sometimes you do need to change
the layer of the page, right?
So, it's as much as you need and as little
as can get away with kind of thing.
So what causes a reflow?
Here is a incomplete list and yes,
the small font is a joke, [LAUGH] right?
It's a way to put as much on
this slide as possible, right?
Resizing the window, changing the font,
changing the content, adding or
removing a stylesheet, adding or removing
classes, adding or removing elements.
Changing the orientation, like when you
take the phone from portrait to landscape,
obviously, like that reflows the page.
Calculating size or position.
That one's interesting.
The simple act of trying
to figure out the size or
position of something, causes a reflow.
Fascinating.
Changing the size or position, like yeah,
of course that causes a reflow.
And when you reflow and
you change the size of a bunch of stuff,
guess what you got to do next?
Right, you got to repaint,
because you now need
to paint more pixels blue if it's a blue
element that you changed the size of.
More or less, I'll give you a hint.
Layout is the second most expensive
part of the rendering pipeline.
Would you like to take a guess
at what the first one is?
Painting,and for every time you reflow
every time you do a layout you have to do
a paint, guess what, they always
come usually as a package deal.
So questions how do we avoid this?
Yeah,you can try like if can't get away
with it changing like the lowest levels of
the DOM trees and
not get that whole page reflow,
like give you change the container element
from 600 pixel wide to 800 pixels wide,
everything inside of it is gonna change.
There are times when you can get away
with changing a much smaller subset but
keeping your changes as low
down the tree as possible.
Stop modying in-line styles will do it,
right?
The less you change,
the less you can trigger this stuff.
I think a really interesting one
is the trade the smoothness for
speed if you're doing
an animation in JavaScript.
We'll talk later about how,
you probably shouldn't be doing animations
in JavaScript but sometimes you need to.
But the thing to think about is,
we talked a little bit before,
the ideal you're aiming for
60 frames a second.
At 16 milliseconds right?
You're like yeah cool.
So on every little pixel I want
this animation to be smooth.
I want to animate every single pixel,
right?
If that takes longer than
your 16 milliseconds and
you're going to miss that frame, right?
Because you're triggering all this reflow.
You're better off moving that box
three pixels at a time, right?
Because you wouldn't have
actually missed as many frames.
So sometimes, writing the animation to
be a little bit jankier makes it faster
because you don't miss the next
frame that's gonna be painted.
The other one is avoiding table layouts,
that kinds of makes sense for
a lot of reasons, one like I write
similar emails, just trust me.
[LAUGH] All right, a table here is hard,
but the other part is like,
if a column and a table gets wider,
what do you think happens like every
other cell above it, and below it?
It's got to give, you know reflowed.
A table effects,
everything around it by definition.
And then batting down manipulation,
this one, if you're using a framework,
you effectively getting it for
free, right.
This is what makes React, React, right?
It's what makes Ember, Ember, and Angular,
Angular, is that they figure out how
to take the state of your application.
And do the bare minimum
of changing the page,
and doing it as efficiently as possible,
right?
So, rather than, I'm gonna add all these.
Like, you'll change a bunch
of stuff in your application.
It will figure out a pro
forma way to do that.
That is like legitimately
what a lot of our frameworks
are bringing to the table, right?
Is the, we will let you make a bunch of
changes to the state of your application,
we will figure out an efficient
way of rendering it.
If you're not using a framework,
this is on you, right?
And like not using a framework
is always a toss up.
Like Frameworks come with a cost,
that we'll see in a little bit.
Right, they're not free.
You have to write like they
are built on JavaScript,
we know that we have to part
JavaScript and execute the JavaScript.
And that they make a lot of
assumptions that have to be general.
A given framework has to be as good for
you as it is for
the person sitting next to you.
Which means that they're are kind
of like Jack of all trades,
they're making best case assumptions.
If you were going to fine tune stuff.
Yeah, like you could probably make
it faster than if you used react but
you'd have to do that for everything and
a lot of times we make the trade off of
a framework making good decisions for
us most of the time right?
So that like we make
them more often right?
And then debouncing recess events,
which is, if you are,
have an eventless scenario that's
listening for the window to resize.
Typically for me, this happens if I'm
making a data visualization with an SVG
and I want to change the width of
everything, like when the window resizes.
They usually dragging it.
So usually you dont want
to do it repeatedly.
You say, okay, I have to drag it and
let me do this every so often,
you'll have less reflows.